---
layout: post
title: "char"
category: c-language-tutorials
date: 2017-08-13 15:19:55 +0430
tags: [programming,unix,language,c,ascii,char,terminal,decimal,short,int]
---

Congrats! So now the numbers are clear for you, at least the decimal form
 of them.

How about printing a character? Let's do it:

```c_cpp
#include <stdio.h>

int main(int argc, char *argv[]){

  printf("My letter is %c.\n", 'A');

  return 0;
}
```

Now let's make a "typo" and make it print a "decimal" instead of a "character"
 or "letter":

```c_cpp
#include <stdio.h>

int main(int argc, char *argv[]){

  printf("My letter is %d.\n", 'A');

  return 0;
}
```

Huh? Your letter is what? O_o

Hello, ASCII! (search for "ascii art" or "bbs acid" to see what sort of trippy
 childhood some of us could possibly have!)

Just remember the 65 and you're good to go. (No, it's not 1995 anymore so you
 won't get any credits for writing your name in ASCII or reading them
 backward :D)

So what's the link between `char` and `int`? Well, an `int`eger variable(a box)
 can hold a "letter" inside it.

If you're good with math(since I'm not), think of it as 4 > 1 and if you're
 interested in history, go back and check the last post about the "order" of
 data types.

You may ask, "Am I allowed to store a decimal number inside a `char` variable?"

The answer is "Yes, indeed!" and in `C`, you have the same level of freedom as
 *shooting yourself in the head while jumping off a tower*.

It IS perfectly possible but not really recommended, specially using the `char`
 keyword.[1] Why? Simply because, C codes are written for "humans" and if
 someone is looking at your code for the first time(eventually last one too!),
 s/he will expect that variable to hold an "English letters" rather than some
 gibberish!

Still don't get it? That's fine, I just want to make you more confused so
 you'll go and learn:

 - Why there are some ASCII codes for digits(48 to 57) if `char` is simply
 nothing but a container for the "Lil int"s?


[1] There are some "libraries" out there for letting you having the 1-byte
 integer(`uint_8`), 2-bytes integer(`uint_16`) and so on.
